# Data Collection Guide

## Writing Prompts (Initial Prompts or Prompter Replies)

Attempt to post a diverse range of prompts. When posting a prompt, consider
whether it is likely to be original. Collecting the same prompt many times is
usually not useful.

Prompts can be on any topic but should not be obscene or hateful. Prompts go
through a moderation process just like answers, so spammy or inappropriate
prompts will be removed.

Do not include personally identifiable information (PII) in prompts. This will
be moderated out.

For prompts, grammar and spelling is significantly less important than answers.
If the grammar of a prompt makes it ambiguous or unreadable it should be
considered low quality, but if it simply contains common typos this is not a
problem.

Prompts should not include links which the assistant must open to effectively
answer the prompt.

## Writing Answers (Assistant Replies)

Answers should aim to match the tone of the prompt. Prompts which are to the
point should receive answers which are to the point. Answers should not be
unnecessarily formal and should be conversational in a manner a human may
write. Avoid jargon if possible.

Attempt to answer in a way which accurately fulfils the request in the prompt.
Low quality answers will be moderated. Longer answers tend to be preferable
unless the prompt is sufficiently simple to justify a shorter one.

Where possible, avoid bias or expressing subjective preferences in answers. Do
not under any circumstances write answers which encourage illegal activities or
activities likely to be harmful to the user or others around them.

Answers should be help to a high standard of grammar and spelling. It is
permissible for answers to contain sources or references provided they are
relevant and from reputable websites. However, this is not required.

Do not copy answers from ChatGPT or other OpenAI services. This is prohibited
according to the OpenAI Terms of Service. Obviously ChatGPT-generated answers
should be reported in moderation and rated low quality.

## Ranking and Classifying Prompts

Largely the criteria for "quality" can be derived by how well the prompt
follows the guidance
[above](https://github.com/LAION-AI/Open-Assistant/blob/main/docs/docs/guides#writing-prompts-initial-prompts-or-prompter-replies).

The other labels are largely self-explanatory. Spam should be reserved for
intentionally low effort or low quality prompts.

## Ranking and Classifying Answers

Largely the criteria for "quality" can be derived by how well the answer
follows the guidance
[above](https://github.com/LAION-AI/Open-Assistant/blob/main/docs/docs/guides#writing-answers-assistant-replies).

The other labels are largely self-explanatory. Spam should be reserved for
intentionally low effort or low quality answers. The bad answer label should be
given when the answer does not respond to the prompt at all or is irrelevant.
